# Incident: YYYY-MM-DD HH-mm-ss

## Summary

> [!NOTE]
> Write a summary of the incident in a few sentences. Include what happened, why, the severity of the incident and how long the impact lasted.
Between the hour of 16:35 and 16:41 on April 5, 2025, 2 users experienced an inability to purchase pizzas. The event was triggered by a failure in the pizza-factory at 16:35. The introduction of chaos in the pizza-factory system caused all calls to purchase pizzas to fail. The event was detected by the pizza purchase failures alert. The team started working by reviewing the logs and inspecting the responses to the network requests on the site. This incident affected 100% of users. 

## Detection

> [!NOTE]
> When did the team detect the incident? How did they know it was happening? How could we improve time-to-detection? Consider: How would we have cut that time by half?

This incident was detected when the pizza purchase failures alert was triggered and Mark Bird was notified at 16:36. The alert was delayed as the system waited for more data to be gathered. The alert will be modified to fire 30 seconds sooner in the future. 

## Impact

> [!NOTE]
> Describe how the incident impacted internal and external users during the incident. Include how many support cases were raised.

For 6 minutes between 16:35 and 16:41 on 04/07/25, 100% of our users experienced an inability to order pizzas. 

## Timeline

> [!NOTE]
> Detail the incident timeline. We recommend using UTC to standardize for timezones.
> Include any notable lead-up events, any starts of activity, the first known impact, and escalations. Note any decisions or changed made, and when the incident ended, along with any post-impact events of note.
All times are UTC.

- _16:35_ - Chaos is triggered at pizza factory and purchases started to fail
- _16:36_ - Email notification was sent to Mark
- _16:37_ - Mark began searching logs and network requests for solution
- _16:39_ - Solution was found by going to https://cs329.cs.byu.edu/api/report?apiKey=fc6db2a0b53d493a8fb16d547ba75c13&fixCode=73feaf7c1ca64ad59840a05e71ee770a and chaos was resolved. 
- _16:41_ - First successful pizza creation
- _16:48_ - Pizza purchase alert was resolved


## Response

> [!NOTE]
> Who responded to the incident? When did they respond, and what did they do? Note any delays or obstacles to responding.

After recieveing the email at 16:35, Mark came online at 16:36. He was able to quickly and successfully respond to the alert. 

## Root cause

> [!NOTE]
> Note the final root cause of the incident, the thing identified that needs to change in order to prevent this class of incident from happening again.

The root cause of this incident was a failure at the pizza factory. New features could be implemented to reduce the dependency on the pizza factory. 

## Resolution

> [!NOTE]
> Describe how the service was restored and the incident was deemed over. Detail how the service was successfully restored and you knew how what steps you needed to take to recovery.
> Depending on the scenario, consider these questions: How could you improve time to mitigation? How could you have cut that time by half?

The service was restored when Mark discovered the root of the cause and went to the appropriate website to resolve the chaos. The incident was deemed over when the pizza purchase failures returned to 0 and the alert cleared. 

## Prevention

> [!NOTE]
> Now that you know the root cause, can you look back and see any other incidents that could have the same root cause? If yes, note what mitigation was attempted in those incidents and ask why this incident occurred again.

There have been no other incidents with this cause. 

## Action items

> [!NOTE]
> Describe the corrective action ordered to prevent this class of incident in the future. Note who is responsible and when they have to complete the work and where that work is being tracked.

A team will be assigned to remove the dependency on the pizza factory and recreate the functionality without the possiblity to induce chaos in the system. 
